API - Database
=========================

This is the alpha version of database management system.
If you have trouble, you can ask for help on `fangde.liu@imperial.ac.uk <fangde.liu@imperial.ac.uk>`_ .


.. note::
   We are writing up the documentation, please wait in patient.


Why TensorDB
----------------

TensorLayer is designed for production, aiming to be applied large scale machine learning application. 
TensorDB introduce the database infracture to address the many challenges in large scale machine learning project, such as 

1. how to mangage the training data and load the training datasets
2. When the dataset is so large that beyonds the storage limitation of one computer
3. how shoud we managment different models and version, and comparing different models.
4. How to automate the whole training, evaluaiton and deploy machine learning model automatically.


In the TensorLayer system, we introduce the database technology to the issues above.

There is an academic publication which could be seen as the white paper of the TensorDB system.
<https://www.dropbox.com/s/jyuy54n8t7k3l2e/tensordb-database-infrastructure.pdf?dl=0>


TensorDB is designed by following three principles.

Everything is Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TensorDB is a data  warehouse that stores that capture the whole machine learning development process. the data inside tensordb can be catagloried as

1. Data and Labels. Which includes all the data for training, validation and prediction. The labels can be manually labelled or generated by machine
2. Model Architecture.This group store the different model architecture, which user can select to use
3. Model Parameters.This tables stores all the model parameters of echo in the training step.
4.  Jobs.all the computation  is cutted into several jobs. Each jobs constains some computing work load. for training , the jobs includes training data , the model parameter, the model architecture, how many epochs the training want to do. Similarity are the validation jobs and inference jobs. 
5. Logs. The logs store all the step time and accuracy and other metric of each training steps and also the time stamps.

TensorDB is in principal is a key-word based search engine.  each model, parameters, or training data are assigned many tags.
The data are stored in two layers. On the top, there is the index layer, which instore the blob storage reference with all the tags assigned to the data. which is implemented based on NoSQL document database such as mongodb. The second layer is used store big chunk of data, such as videos, medical images or image mask, which is usually implemented as file system.   Our open source implementation is implemented based MongoDB. The blob data is in store in the gridfs while the tag index is  stored in the documents.



Everying is identified by Query
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


Within TensorDB framework, any entity within the data warehouse, such as  the data, model or jobs are specified by the database query language.  
The first advantage is the query is more efficient  in space and can specify multiple objects in a concise way.
The advantage such a design is to enable a highly flexible software system. data, model architecture and training are interchangeable.Many work can be implemented by simply rewire different components. This enable us to develop many new application just by change the query without change any applicaition code.

An pulling based Stream processing pipeline.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Also with a large dataset, we can assume that the data is unlimited.
TensorDB provides a streaming interface, implemented in python as generators, it keeps return the new data during training.
Also the training system have no clue of epochs, instead, it knows batchize and store parameters after how many steps.

Many techniques are introduced behind the streaming interface. The stream is implemented based on the database cursor technology,  so for every search, only the cursors are returned, not the actual data. Only when the generator is evaluated, the acutal data is loaded. The data loading is further optimise 

1. data are compressed and decompressed, 
2. the dataloaded in bulk model to optimise the IO traffic 
3. The argumentation or random sample are computed on the fly after the data are loaded into the local computer. 
4. To optimise the space, the will also be a cache system that only store the recent blob data.


Based on streaming interface, TensorLayer can be implemented as a continuous machine learning. 
On the distributed system, the model training, validation and deployment can be running on different computers which all running continuously.
The trainer can keeps on optimising the models, the evaluation keeps evaluating the recent added models and the deployment system keeps pulling the best models from the TensorDB warehouse.




XXX:

 - ``xxx`` : xxx.
 - ``xxx`` : xxx.
 - ``xxx`` : xxx.


``xxx`` = [x, x, x, x, x, x]

xxx ``xxx`` or ``xxx``.

Preparation
--------------

In principle, TensorDB is can be implemented on any documents NoSQL database system.
The exisitng implementation is based on Mongodb.
Further implementaiton on other database will be released depends on progress.
It will be stragihtford to port the tensorDB system to google cloud , aws and azure.


The following tutorial is base on the MongoDb implmenetation.


Install MongoDB
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The installation instruction of Mongodb can be found at
< https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/ >
there are also managed mongodb service from amazon or gcp, or mongo atlas from mongodb

after install mongodb, a mongod db management tool with graphic user interface will be extremely valuale.

users can install the Studio3T( mongochef), which is free for none commerical user interface.
< https://studio3t.com/ >


Start MongoDB service
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Connect to database
----------------------
.. code-block:: python
  from tensorlayer.db import TensorDB
  db = TensorDB(ip='146.169.15.140', port=27017, db_name='your_db', user_name=None, password=None, studyID='1')

Save and load data
---------------------

Save data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Load data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^










.. automodule:: tensorlayer.db

.. autoclass:: TensorDB
   :members:
